Are you
Brooke Oaks: I'm sorry.
Richelle Direny: Yes, sir. How are you
Brooke Oaks: Good, how are you
Good.
Richelle Direny: Today are
Richelle Direny: So I'm
Richelle Direny: Going to be your therapist, and then we're just today is just more so I'm getting to know your your intake.
Richelle Direny: Hello, thank you so much for coming.
Richelle Direny: What do you have you got any groups.
Brooke Oaks: Now, I have not. They the doctor told me to set up appointments, but she didn't say which group. I was supposed to be. And so they left a note and
Brooke Oaks: Said that I needed to be said for group, but I didn't know which one yet.
Richelle Direny: Okay, we could do this. Let me see.
Richelle Direny: Maybe I can. So there's groups. We have groups on Mondays at 12 because you meet with him.
Richelle Direny: So you have groups Mondays at 12
Richelle Direny: I'm Thursdays at
Richelle Direny: 12 there's a group tomorrow at 12 in one it's six
Richelle Direny: So there are two groups on Thursdays 12 and six, and there's one on Monday. Which one do you think will be best for you.
Brooke Oaks: Monday. Well, if you had to split working during misery.
Brooke Oaks: Did you say you had one at night.
Brooke Oaks: Can you change, and I am able to change it if I get a job and it goes around that.
Richelle Direny: That's why, that's why there's two days.
Brooke Oaks: Okay.
Brooke Oaks: Well, Monday for now and I'll do Monday for now.
Richelle Direny: What you can do
Richelle Direny: Just for the sake of having our group to be attended this week I'm going to put you down Mondays at 12
Brooke Oaks: Okay.
Richelle Direny: And, um, but just for the purpose of for this week. You could come to the group tomorrow at tomorrow's Thursday.
Richelle Direny: come tomorrow at six or
Richelle Direny: Or
Brooke Oaks: No 12 or 612 or six tomorrow.
Brooke Oaks: Probably tool.
Brooke Oaks: 12
Brooke Oaks: How much are the groups because I'm self pay, right now I'm working on getting insurance but
Brooke Oaks: I'm just kind of curious, what am I looking at
Richelle Direny: That when you see you have to speak.
To
Richelle Direny: In terms of your the feet. When you say you have no insurance whatsoever.
Richelle Direny: Right, yeah. So you'd have to speak with the virtual clinic and they will tell you.
What the fees.
Brooke Oaks: By the way, my mom is with me, she have a
Brooke Oaks: What's it called
Brooke Oaks: That paper.
Brooke Oaks: What paper release of information for her. She knows me just about as well as I know me so I'm if I can't come up with the words for something she is here. So if you hear somebody talking. I'm going to be her if it's not me.
Richelle Direny: You you provided that release of information on
Yeah.
Richelle Direny: That's right.
Yep.
Brooke Oaks: She usually helps me out with the initial appointments, because she helps me like word things and helps me kind of explain things better and I have anxiety. So
Brooke Oaks: Okay. Definitely first time.
Richelle Direny: Alright, so if you could just, you know, just jot that down only for tomorrow. You could come at the 12 o'clock or myself and Natalie runs that group, um,
Richelle Direny: Are you hearing me
Brooke Oaks: Yes. Sorry, I had an alarm go off and I had to shut it off.
Richelle Direny: Okay. Um, yeah.
Richelle Direny: I'm sorry. So, Natalie and myself are in that group. So we and like I said I'll be here sign counselor and kind of at the end of this
Richelle Direny: We will kind of review and discuss kind of how your
Richelle Direny: Your appointments will go from here. Sorry.
Brooke Oaks: He said, what, I'm sorry.
Richelle Direny: So I said, myself.
Richelle Direny: I'm a
Richelle Direny: Therapist and Natalie's the one that arm. She's the physician assistant and she will be the one to do your medicine so she which her and I run the group on Thursdays.
Richelle Direny: That you will weekly. So just kind of given that this is outside of meeting with her for the initial appointment and now with me. So I'm going to go over some of the rules and then we'll get into the intake process by kind of that getting those what I call it. Um, so
Richelle Direny: You come, especially when you come to group.
Richelle Direny: I know you're, you said that your mom is with you, like when we're doing one on one.
Richelle Direny: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Right, but not for the groups. Yes, because there are so many people there. We ask that you have a headset in just for the purpose of confidentiality and things of that nature.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, yeah, especially when you're looking for the groups and and you know always being in a private area.
Richelle Direny: Know, sometimes I know. Because of this, this, this platform being on a video chat. It allows you the ability to move up and down or what have you. And if you're going to do that especially again in a group setting you just keep your, your headset in
Brooke Oaks: You can't should do Thursdays at six because it'd be a better time for me to know when my appointment is for sure be awakened by then.
Brooke Oaks: I was, I don't know you, said I. Okay.
Brooke Oaks: I may end up changing my group. Time to six.
Brooke Oaks: But I'm not certain yet. So I'll leave it as it is right now. But you said I can change it whenever
Richelle Direny: It's
Richelle Direny: Fine to the 12 O'clock group which is, I mean, the thing is, you know, people are assigned to different groups. I also when we created the groups we created that you know because things happen, like you said, Maybe 12 O'clock Mondays at 12 works for you.
Richelle Direny: But then you get a job. And that changes. And then, so you would have to come on a Thursday at noon or six because of your schedule. That's fine.
Richelle Direny: You just have to come to
Richelle Direny: The other, the other so
Brooke Oaks: Look, you guys before
Richelle Direny: Hmm.
Brooke Oaks: When I was with you guys before
Brooke Oaks: You could only change it. Like, do a one time change for your appointment time
Brooke Oaks: For the group's okay
Richelle Direny: If I know. So this is the other piece of it because your, your prescriptions are written weekly and so it's written based on
Richelle Direny: The day you attend group. So if you do Mondays, then every Monday, you wouldn't you would have needed that refill.
Brooke Oaks: That's just the only thing
Richelle Direny: So that's the other reason why you know say to try to keep it consistent on the day. So if you want me to
Richelle Direny: I mean, if you're if you're working on getting you know job during the day, then maybe for you, Thursdays at six will be fine for us. The other thing is that those groups are very large
Richelle Direny: So Mondays at six where the group is a little bit lighter that's, you know, so you take come tomorrow.
Brooke Oaks: 12 x
Richelle Direny: Kind of see the feel of it will see the layout of the way
Richelle Direny: Then that's on Monday. See the layout of the land and then you can say, Okay, listen, I prefer right
Brooke Oaks: At 10 o'clock tomorrow and then
They'll
Brooke Oaks: Welcome clock.
Richelle Direny: There's 12 and 6pm
Brooke Oaks: Thursday at 12 and then Mondays at 10
Richelle Direny: Know 12 everything is 12
Brooke Oaks: Maybe
Brooke Oaks: At 12
Okay.
Richelle Direny: Maybe if it's an individual
Richelle Direny: Okay, okay, um,
Richelle Direny: Now, we talked about the group and you know the other thing is just, you know, given that you had your appointment today and you came in, you know, on a timely manner. Thank you.
Richelle Direny: So much for that, you know, if it is a situation where
Richelle Direny: You're not going to be able to make your appointment. I'm just call virtual clinic and let them know so that
Richelle Direny: They will be they're able to reschedule.
Okay.
Richelle Direny: Um,
Richelle Direny: What was the other thing.
Richelle Direny: In terms of the privacy and oh, the other part of it is. So, what I find is that
Richelle Direny: appointment scheduled in the morning. Around this time, the traffic in virtual clinic may not be as bad. But when it comes on to group. A lot of people are checking it all at one time.
Richelle Direny: So we encourage everyone you have up to six hours before your group appointments to check in, you just call into virtual clinic go through the check in process when the group when the ID becomes available, they will send it to you.
Richelle Direny: Okay then.
Richelle Direny: You have to do is just come straight to your meeting. You don't have to go through the virtual can just come straight to your meeting one that sent to
Richelle Direny: You okay
Richelle Direny: Because sometimes that the, you know, with group, you can meet showing up very late. And then we have the ability to say whether or not you're allowed to come into the group. So that's why we just say come as early as possible. Just check in. As early as
Richelle Direny: Possible. Yeah.
Richelle Direny: I
Brooke Oaks: Didn't think about that. That's nice.
Richelle Direny: Okay, now. Um, so, for the purposes of our time together. I'm in, you know, just starting this process.
Richelle Direny: So you said that you were with us before. How long ago was that
Brooke Oaks: That was I'm gonna say August I think I actually had you for my groups I changed over from
Brooke Oaks: Am I have had you before I think
Brooke Oaks: I'm not certain, but
Richelle Direny: Who was the doctor.
Brooke Oaks: It was good.
Brooke Oaks: Okay, it was. Do you remember the name
Brooke Oaks: It was a man and then she
Brooke Oaks: Got deployed. Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Dr. Malik.
Brooke Oaks: Okay, it's to the email doctor. She was a blonde.
Richelle Direny: You soon.
Richelle Direny: Dr. James. Okay. And where are you going on. Did you go to groups on Tuesdays, or Thursdays.
Brooke Oaks: Both at one point in time.
Richelle Direny: Okay, well, because it wasn't, it was myself on Thursdays and Maggie was
Brooke Oaks: I was on Thursdays and Thursdays were big days at work server. And so I switched to Tuesday's
Richelle Direny: Okay. Okay, so, um, so then hold on. If you
Richelle Direny: So were you discharged from the program and then
Brooke Oaks: I lost my insurance so I stopped going
Richelle Direny: Okay, I see you were, I see that you were attending and then you never had anything
Brooke Oaks: I am I had trouble with appointments, a little bit, getting to them because at the time I was 12 months and
Brooke Oaks: I didn't really have phone service. So a lot of the times I would have to go to McDonald's or something to get Wi Fi and a lot of the times that I wasn't in Wi Fi. So I would look at the time, and I'd realized that I had to be in my appointment. So it was just a hard time in general. So
Uh huh.
Brooke Oaks: But now saying I moms and waiting on my apartment and I have phone service, so it will not be
Richelle Direny: Okay, yes I do see okay
Richelle Direny: All right, well, so then this will be the first time that you're actually doing this bio because I did see that back in August. You had it scheduled and like you said you weren't able to make it back in August. Okay, so
Richelle Direny: When you
Richelle Direny: So given that you're coming back again on to the program because now you're your living situation has changed. You're saying
Richelle Direny: Now live with. Okay, now prior to in that time when you were not. Were you getting any services through another program.
Richelle Direny: No.
Richelle Direny: I'm so you've never been in any treatment after you stop.
Brooke Oaks: No.
Brooke Oaks: I doing mental health which provider here.
Brooke Oaks: But
Brooke Oaks: Not
Brooke Oaks: Substance abuse or anything.
Richelle Direny: You were seeing someone from mental health counseling.
Brooke Oaks: Am now.
Richelle Direny: We're using for mental health counseling.
Brooke Oaks: He cn
Brooke Oaks: Xenia
Richelle Direny: So who
Was the person
Brooke Oaks: The name is Jessica Jones with TCM
Richelle Direny: Okay. Okay, so, um, so you just been getting mental health counseling. Okay. Now, in terms of like the the
Richelle Direny: As it's related to kind of the history of your substance use, if you could just kind of share your history when. How old were you when you got started kind of your drug of choice and the circumstances surrounding there.
Brooke Oaks: Okay, so I started using coke.
Brooke Oaks: 19
Brooke Oaks: And
Brooke Oaks: That's
Brooke Oaks: Kind of
Brooke Oaks: Got into a little bit of bad lifestyle, I guess, and then
Brooke Oaks: Was using Coke for a while and then
Brooke Oaks: Mess kind of helped me get off the coast, and then I moved to date and I ended up around that kind of crowd. I guess with the apartment that I was in the people upstairs used meth and heroin and all that. And I was around them and
Brooke Oaks: Then
Brooke Oaks: I was in a bad place living in the apartment. I was living in throughout that I kind of started using heroin.
Richelle Direny: Okay, this just your introduction, just kind of into the addiction world or the beginning in the onset of it was at 19 years old.
Richelle Direny: And throughout that time at 19 TEACH YOU EVER. Have you ever gone into like an inpatient program or in separate treatment program.
Brooke Oaks: For mental health or substance abuse or both.
Richelle Direny: Um, oh
Brooke Oaks: Okay, I'm substance abuse one today going to access
Brooke Oaks: I think I did an access right before I joined with you guys. So that was probably, I think it was April last year or something.
Brooke Oaks: It was probably around April, I think.
Richelle Direny: Completed successful
Brooke Oaks: Yes, it was a three day detox.
Brooke Oaks: After signed up with you guys.
Brooke Oaks: And then you guys
Richelle Direny: Okay, so that's the only program you've done with when it comes down to.
Brooke Oaks: For substance abuse. Yes, I've done outpatient substance abuse with TCM as well.
Brooke Oaks: But with mental health. I was in the hospital.
Brooke Oaks: It was just stay. Is that like last fall.
Brooke Oaks: When I was in for like five days, as well as last fall, wasn't that long ago.
Brooke Oaks: It's probably like six months ago.
Richelle Direny: And, um,
Richelle Direny: It was really you for you're saying for substance abuse. It was just a detox program before starting with us. Okay. Um,
Richelle Direny: Has there been any, like, since the onset or even prior has the is there like any medical conditions or history.
Richelle Direny: That you know about
Brooke Oaks: I don't believe so.
Richelle Direny: But medical like diabetes, anything like that. Like any kind of medical
Brooke Oaks: No.
No.
Richelle Direny: finished high school
Richelle Direny: Yes. Did you go to college.
Brooke Oaks: A little bit.
Richelle Direny: Okay, like one year, two years,
Brooke Oaks: Like I did a semester and I dropped too many classes and apparently very good. My advisor didn't tell me it was gonna affect my grant so I ended up owing them and I just didn't go back
To you.
Richelle Direny: Any children.
Brooke Oaks: No, no.
Richelle Direny: Any history.
Richelle Direny: Kind of
Brooke Oaks: Any kind of what
Richelle Direny: Abuse abuse.
Richelle Direny: Or physical any type of any history.
Of abuse. Yeah.
Brooke Oaks: Yes.
Richelle Direny: This is where I'm seeing from
Brooke Oaks: I have it. I'm down. I'm in the basement at my mom's and she's flying machines. I have my own angle on it.
Richelle Direny: Like, that's all I would see
Richelle Direny: Ya know, wouldn't you said yes. Now what the nature, mental, physical, sexual
Brooke Oaks: mental and physical
Richelle Direny: Okay, and how old
Richelle Direny: Were you
Brooke Oaks: This is any point in time, right.
Brooke Oaks: Because it was
Brooke Oaks: This past year,
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: And it was due to being in a relationship.
Brooke Oaks: Yes.
Richelle Direny: Looking at your so we're going to move down to
Richelle Direny: psych history.
Richelle Direny: Um, do you
Richelle Direny: Are you are you, you're seeing, you're getting mental health counseling. What were your diet and where your diagnosis.
Brooke Oaks: When she died, she said.
Brooke Oaks: She said borderline personality disorder. And I'm not sure if she said general anxiety or depression, but I know I've been diagnosed both those many times. So there's anxiety, depression, as well as bipolar. So I've been told bipolar and I've been told borderline and add and add
Richelle Direny: So you were recently diagnosed with borderline personality.
Brooke Oaks: Yes.
Richelle Direny: And you were diagnosed through the
Brooke Oaks: PC and they also diagnosed me a different doctor, they're diagnosed me with anxiety and depression, for sure, but do you remember, she said, anxiety, depression,
Brooke Oaks: Yeah, she didn't really specify a whole lot. I think she just said she was gonna keep my diagnosis, same
Richelle Direny: I'm seeing a psychiatrist.
Brooke Oaks: Not yet.
Brooke Oaks: Because of the covert stuff and
Brooke Oaks: They don't have the psychiatrists and and I just I just moved back to Ohio for Indiana and I'm kind of just getting everything set backup.
Richelle Direny: And how long
Richelle Direny: You have more should I ask this, did you see where you see a psychiatrist in the past.
Brooke Oaks: Yes, I have.
Richelle Direny: Okay, and you're on.
Richelle Direny: Medications for
Richelle Direny: Diagnosis
Brooke Oaks: I'm on lexapro right now.
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: That's what that looks like for depression. Right.
Brooke Oaks: Yes. And that helps with anxiety, a little bit.
Richelle Direny: Is there. Have you is there been any kind of hospitalizations.
Richelle Direny: From it, because I know you said that you were diagnosed with bipolar disorder.
Richelle Direny: Yes. What was your most recent hospitalization.
Brooke Oaks: I want to say, I can't remember exactly when but don't say like six months ago.
Richelle Direny: Six months ago. And what were the circumstances around
Brooke Oaks: Like life circumstances or
Richelle Direny: Just the circumstances surrounding you. The hospital ours.
Brooke Oaks: I was homeless and I was in a relationship with
Brooke Oaks: Someone that was abusive and
Brooke Oaks: It just kind of brought me down really bad and I wasn't looking or anything. I don't think and
Brooke Oaks: So I didn't necessarily aren't too.
Brooke Oaks: hurt myself, but I was afraid that if I didn't get help that I was going to end up getting that bad.
Richelle Direny: Huh. Okay. And so you kind of you. So it was a voluntary admission to the hospital. Mm hmm. Um, has there been any history of suicide attempts, um, or overdose whether intentional or unintentional.
No.
Richelle Direny: I'm a self harm behaviors.
Brooke Oaks: Yes.
Richelle Direny: I'm
Brooke Oaks: Easter cut
Brooke Oaks: And
Brooke Oaks: I also used to, I guess, get myself.
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: And when was this is not all of this, everything that you're sharing is this
Richelle Direny: Since the age of 19 at the onset of addiction or this all feeds back pre addiction.
Brooke Oaks: I'm
Brooke Oaks: The kind of most of its after I would say
Brooke Oaks: I used to hear myself before all this but um
Brooke Oaks: The cutting is more so started after
Richelle Direny: Now since being in our program is that the first time that you've ever been in any
Richelle Direny: are happy that this is the first time like you've ever had, like, a counselor or
Richelle Direny: Had a mental health counselor that you're working with no
Richelle Direny: But you've had counselors in the past. Yeah.
Richelle Direny: And even with them. Did you complete their program successfully or is it that you kind of just stopped.
Brooke Oaks: I kind of just stopped. She fired them lunch use them in high school.
Richelle Direny: Oh, so since high school. You've been
Brooke Oaks: She, she started having issues.
Brooke Oaks: Probably between sixth and seventh grade about onset of puberty.
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: And as a teenager, you would fire your counselors.
Brooke Oaks: Yeah. The first one I remember
Brooke Oaks: He diagnosed me with odd oppositional defiance disorder because I would sleep and I slept a lot so I MISSED A LOT OF SCHOOL AND WE TOLD ME. I DID IT voluntarily, which I'm looking back on it now. I feel like
Brooke Oaks: That kind of describes odd saying like him telling me that I'm missing school because I'm intentionally doing it. So I fired him because I didn't like what he had to say. But
Brooke Oaks: I didn't agree with it at the time because I didn't really understand it because
Brooke Oaks: I knew that I wasn't intentionally missing school and I wasn't intentionally sleeping. But I think subconsciously now thinking about it. I think I was subconsciously probably doing that. And I would get stressed out. So I would just sleep.
Richelle Direny: What was there any medical things underlining that would while you were sleeping a lot
Brooke Oaks: No, I saw your note will get you want to just sleep tasks, but we wanted to do a sleep test, I guess. But she said I fired him.
Brooke Oaks: And now looking back on it. Honestly, I wish I would have done it. But I was a kid.
Brooke Oaks: You still there.
She's
Brooke Oaks: A baby after eight hours worth of testing.
Brooke Oaks: Oh, she left
Her
Brooke Oaks: There.
Brooke Oaks: Yeah, I mean, the blue on here.
Richelle Direny: From here.
Brooke Oaks: I am
Richelle Direny: I thought it was awesome. I thought it was you who froze. But then I realized I think my internet keeps everything. Also I switched it over.
Richelle Direny: Okay, sorry about that. Um,
Richelle Direny: So, yeah.
Brooke Oaks: Go ahead, I'm sorry. After was also the one that died, she got her tested for a learning disorder.
Brooke Oaks: And they decided that she had add because there's nothing else wrong with her.
Brooke Oaks: There's eight hours of testing and occupational
Brooke Oaks: Health
Richelle Direny: So, so they diagnosed did till she was not diagnosed with a learning disorder. They tested her, but then found out she did not have a learning disorder.
Brooke Oaks: Right.
Brooke Oaks: Yeah, they
Richelle Direny: Add
Brooke Oaks: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: No. Interesting.
Brooke Oaks: Sense definitely feel like I have a DD but well I mean she's, she's smart, she's incredibly intelligent, she just
Brooke Oaks: doesn't remember the things she's reading and things like that.
Brooke Oaks: And so because she was having trouble with reading routine and retaining the information. Even when I talked her through it, they decided to test her for learning disorders and they did eight hours.
Brooke Oaks: And they said she learns fine. It's just, you know, she just can't me there's something going on there. So we're calling it add
Brooke Oaks: Sorry.
Brooke Oaks: My whole family is like just scatterbrained like all you all get out
Richelle Direny: Where could it be that you just weren't interested because sometimes people, it's, it's all about interest if you're not interested in something
Brooke Oaks: I have
Brooke Oaks: A hard time concentrating
Brooke Oaks: I'm like, thinking, sometimes we have a lot going on.
Brooke Oaks: And it's not necessarily like even things that I enjoy. I can read over a sentence. And then just not take it in and then have to read over it three times.
Richelle Direny: So it's your, your, so you have a difficult time as you saying retaining just processing the information and
Brooke Oaks: Retain that
Richelle Direny: Now,
Richelle Direny: With moving that but for the oppositional defiance. You said that he had diagnosed you with the oppositional defiance from a child that was only thing from childhood, which was more of a childhood diagnosis. That's a diagnosis frickin
Brooke Oaks: He also diagnosed with a DD, and he diagnosed me with no market research, there's
Brooke Oaks: No doubt the precise was 30 odd doctor
Brooke Oaks: What's his name I can't remember. Either way around Bauer was the bipolar. But he diagnosed with bipolar general anxiety of leaving depression.
Richelle Direny: Okay, I mean with with oppositional defiance. A lot of it is having issues with
Richelle Direny: authority figures. So you would always have an issue with anyone that's what that's in authority like based on your behavior. Behavior outbursts or not wanting to follow rules.
Richelle Direny: So it's whether it's your parents, your teachers anyone that's in any type of authority figure in your life is who. So that's kind of where the oppositional defiance comes from a society. I do my own thing. When I want and I don't want anybody to tell me what to do type of what
Brooke Oaks: If somebody tries to tell her she would just shut down completely just, I mean just blank stare and just not be verbal just shut down completely. There's only one man in her life who could yell at her and get her to act and that was her best friend's dad.
Richelle Direny: Huh.
Richelle Direny: It must be something in terms of she is kind of being that authoritative figure in her life where she can
Brooke Oaks: Bizarre because we're in a softball game.
Brooke Oaks: And he was yelling at her about her position. I said, Don't yell at her, she'll just shut down. She did exactly what he said. And I'm like, What's this about
Richelle Direny: The sport you playing or did you
Brooke Oaks: So I like the sport. Yeah.
Richelle Direny: You like the sport and you are focused, then you want it to be good at what you're doing. So you gave that that degree of respect because you want to instill you saw him in that light that he's only helping you to get better at what are these the
Richelle Direny: And you didn't see it as a you didn't feel like you need to put up a defense to it. And so it just, it's all about your perception of how you look at a person and how they're giving you the instructions and how your brain computes it it's like are
Richelle Direny: They are, they look at me or are they trying to tear me down and make me less of who I need to be
Brooke Oaks: Yeah, kind of like, I guess I see it. Now I can think of it like I guess in a way that
Brooke Oaks: Like when I'm at work. Obviously, I'm going to have a better benefit if I listen to my boss. But if I'm working on a project with someone, and I think the idea that I have would be better. I don't want to hear from somebody else to do it a different way.
Brooke Oaks: That makes sense.
Richelle Direny: Yes, it's always how your how your, your mind perceives the information coming in at you. It's all about how your brain is taking it in and it's it's making me better or making me feel less than and not worthy or it's how
Richelle Direny: How your brain is telling you how the information is coming. It
Brooke Oaks: explains a lot. That's big. That's huge.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, so it's just, it's really how your, your, your mind and a lot of times, sometimes it goes back maybe even so
Richelle Direny: Often, and we'll talk about your individual is kind of how your mind is taking in the information and a lot of that how we become and who we are. Later in life.
Richelle Direny: Starts from her our earlier years and how information was if you grew up in someone was always doubting you and your
Richelle Direny: Your opinion and what you're seeing was never a valuable enough you develop this wall that later on in life.
Richelle Direny: I you. It's like I'm going to have control in everything that I do and I'm not going to allow and you made that decision.
Richelle Direny: That I will only listen to people who is going to benefit me I don't know this, and I need to learn this. Those are the only people I'm listening to everybody else that I feel
Richelle Direny: Like is making me less than or anybody that then your brain shuts down because your brain brings you back to maybe earlier in life, who did that to you who took that away from you, what becomes like I'm control of I'm in control of what I taken and what I allow
Richelle Direny: That could be what it is.
Okay.
Richelle Direny: Alright, so moving into
Richelle Direny: The history as it's related to family.
Richelle Direny: History in terms of as it's related to mental illness and with your biological parents mom and dad. Is there any history of mental illness.
Yep.
Brooke Oaks: Yes, I'm sorry.
Brooke Oaks: And we've got, I was diagnosed bipolar postpartum depression severe depression.
Brooke Oaks: Not bipolar.
Brooke Oaks: Bipolar to I've had a lot of it.
Brooke Oaks: There's a lot of live in. I tried suicide. A couple times when I was younger. Her dad. It was depression, but I think he also has anger issues and anxiety and anxiety I have anxiety to
Richelle Direny: Get about
Richelle Direny: Maternal
Brooke Oaks: And yes on maternal don't know a lot about paternal
Richelle Direny: earthier
Brooke Oaks: Anything, and they talk about those things. That's the way they were
Richelle Direny: There because I think mental illness is something that's more in the past. It was a lot more frowned upon. It's not. It's kind of like those times we'll talk
Richelle Direny: We'll talk about it type of thing.
Brooke Oaks: Right and her dad was a older like he's like 77 now and it said he came of that generation where they still and my dad was just like a dress. So we talked about all the time.
Richelle Direny: Huh. Okay. Okay. Um,
Richelle Direny: Did your dad agree with your diagnosis is your grandfather. If you agree with those notices for yourself.
Brooke Oaks: He was kind of deep into Alzheimer's when she got to that point.
Richelle Direny: Okay, okay, okay. Um, so they're definitely in terms of the diagnosis. There's some predisposition.
Richelle Direny: Correct. With the that I was so, to some degree, based on what mom is saying, I can perceive where the odd came from.
Richelle Direny: Because it almost seems like that odd was more of a defensive stance, mostly more than more than anything as it's truly related to an oppositional person back part of that.
Richelle Direny: Came from a lot of that predispositions from both sides, growing up.
Richelle Direny: And how things worked out with and how you develop kind of that wall in terms of what you allow and what your what your brain computer. And what I'm going to allow
Richelle Direny: Allow so I can definitely see where that odd may be fitting
Richelle Direny: Or even some of that depression or those emotional things that lead to, because that's what a lot of lot of what bipolar is a lot more emotional
Richelle Direny: The inability to control a lot of your emotions and how they are displayed the output was a lot of what's going on internally and that's where maybe the mania would come from is the inability to control a lot of those emotions or knowing how to control a lot of those emotions.
Richelle Direny: In terms of art. Do you have any siblings. Are you an only child, a
Brooke Oaks: Sister older sister.
Brooke Oaks: She has, she's got anxiety, she's never been depressed, which are diagnosed with depression but she's got anxiety anxiety.
Brooke Oaks: Doesn't she hasn't been diagnosed with depression, but probably has depression, a little bit.
Richelle Direny: Um, what about history within the family of suicide or homicide or self interest behavior.
Brooke Oaks: Mom tried suicide and shoes that probably are 20
Brooke Oaks: early to mid 20s.
Brooke Oaks: When you're there with
Richelle Direny: Your grandmother
Richelle Direny: Mean, okay.
Brooke Oaks: You and then there were times I considered it but I got myself check into quite get it in my 40s. This is going through a bad time. And so I just
Brooke Oaks: Yeah, so I checked myself and
Richelle Direny: Broker I'm
Richelle Direny: Substance abuse now. Sorry. GLENN BACK. Your sister is still living.
Brooke Oaks: Yes.
Richelle Direny: Okay and dad is still living.
Yes.
Richelle Direny: On both sides, our grandparents living or deceased.
Brooke Oaks: Not all of them.
Brooke Oaks: They're all
Richelle Direny: Just. These are all the feast. Yes. Okay. And then all of them are natural causes, like regular illnesses with any of it.
All simers
Brooke Oaks: Regular listeners for dying.
Richelle Direny: He
Brooke Oaks: Just friggin that my dad was all timers and liver cancer which they let go because of the Alzheimer's and then my mom was she had a lot of issues with COPD heart, things like that way.
Brooke Oaks: So that I'll pay it played a factor pushing out like what I suspect is a lawyer, Dan list, but they diagnosed, it is fiber of my algebra.
Richelle Direny: All of them and
Brooke Oaks: A lot of
Brooke Oaks: Yeah, and
Brooke Oaks: Grandmother. She just called out at old age, I think, and then paternal grandfather. I think he had
Brooke Oaks: Some he had medical issues, because I think he had a shot in his brain at the end.
Richelle Direny: I'm
Richelle Direny: Substance abuse history. Does your sister have a history of substance abuse.
Brooke Oaks: She has tried know she used marijuana pretty heavily through high school.
Brooke Oaks: She doesn't know. She doesn't even drink now very much
Richelle Direny: Okay, and what about
Richelle Direny: Parents side.
Brooke Oaks: Lots on both sides, but not that they would know.
Brooke Oaks: But it still affected their upbringing, I'm sure.
Richelle Direny: Okay. And this is from
Brooke Oaks: both mom and
Brooke Oaks: Dad, although
Richelle Direny: So you said that, not that. Not that they will know. So growing up. There was the history of addiction on both sides, but they weren't exposed to it.
Brooke Oaks: They didn't really Yeah, pretty much. They didn't really see it because we were high functioning.
Richelle Direny: Gotcha.
Brooke Oaks: And it was not. It wasn't like
Brooke Oaks: It was like you know when they would go away to their friend's house for the weekends, then, you know, or at night after they were in bed or now their dad their dad drank a lot and they saw that more than anything else.
Brooke Oaks: That I drank.
Brooke Oaks: I drank every day, but I was like, like I said, high functioning.
Richelle Direny: Now, um, any history of yourself. I broke off.
Incarceration
Brooke Oaks: For me,
Brooke Oaks: Yes, is an incarcerated once
Richelle Direny: So you're not you're not on probation. You're not any kind of
Pending doing
Brooke Oaks: I was not charged. Yeah, yeah.
Richelle Direny: refunds or that was some time ago.
Brooke Oaks: That was little morning
Brooke Oaks: A little more than a year ago.
Brooke Oaks: It was not
Brooke Oaks: Charging is. Oh yeah, literally a little more than a year ago.
Richelle Direny: Okay, um,
Richelle Direny: So currently, you're living with just mom.
Brooke Oaks: Mom and her boyfriend.
Richelle Direny: And mom is pretty supportive. Yeah. Okay. Have you been in treatment and
Richelle Direny: Assistance. Okay.
Richelle Direny: Um,
Richelle Direny: Now, what about in terms of the living arrangement boyfriend also month is pretty supportive and involved as well, or just kind of
Richelle Direny: Their
Brooke Oaks: Neck. Yes.
Brooke Oaks: He sees that she's working really hard for this. And so he's been very supportive. He's retired law enforcement and so he had some doubts about behaviors, but now he sees that she's working really hard. So he's he's just, he's right there in a corner.
Richelle Direny: So there's a little bit of bias because of the fact that he's in law enforcement.
Brooke Oaks: Yeah.
Well, but the attitude.
Richelle Direny: And even in there. I guess it's understandable his background seen a light bulb definitely nice
Richelle Direny: From a place of a little bit of love, but a little bit of hesitation, because of what he seen so he looks at you through that lens and it's kind of hard to read it.
Richelle Direny: And you said no children. No, you've never given birth to a child or anything like that. Right.
Richelle Direny: Were you born and raised in. I know you said that you were living in another state. At one point, but were you born and raised in Ohio.
Yes.
Richelle Direny: And currently unemployed.
Brooke Oaks: Excuse me.
Richelle Direny: Are you
Richelle Direny: Okay, from a program standpoint. And at this point, having rejoined the program. What are your personalized when you thought, thought about, you know, what I want to start this program again because at the end of the day.
Richelle Direny: This is all voluntary you're doing this. Was it your actions is saying that you want to change you're entering into that stage of I want to change. Life has to be more than this.
Richelle Direny: From this in this platform. It shows it speaks more volumes, because it's different about them getting into a car and figuring out going through a location and a little bit different. What is info that speaks volumes and I highlight that because that speaks volumes within itself.
Richelle Direny: For our time together that we will be together.
Richelle Direny: What is it that you
Richelle Direny: Would like to work on. What is your purpose. And what is it, what are your goals.
Brooke Oaks: Necessarily figured that out yet. Um, it definitely. I mean, I just, I need to focus on myself and learn how to I guess cope with things better, or learn different ways to do things. I mean,
Brooke Oaks: Anything else I should add
Richelle Direny: More so for you.
Richelle Direny: It's more for you if
Brooke Oaks: You know,
Richelle Direny: What I mean because mommy supportive mom is there to help with like I'm in terms of recalling certain information is in in that way. But at the end of the day, this is going into your core.
Brooke Oaks: I know
Richelle Direny: Well, for you, like at this point in time when you said I'm going to call back up right heart and I'm self paying because the ST know you know walk in the park in terms of, I don't know how much it is, but I'm sure it ain't costing you find others every visit
Brooke Oaks: I, I tried to come off of the subs and I was pretty much out and
Brooke Oaks: I went to the hospital and they gave me hydroxyl seen for anxiety and quantity and patch and
Brooke Oaks: promethazine for stomach and I tried to come off of it. But I realized I think I need to be on anxiety medicine and maybe in my own place and whatnot, to get off of it. So, and I could use more depth in
Brooke Oaks: My understanding of things and knowing how to handle situations better and
Brooke Oaks: I'm definitely not the best I could be
Brooke Oaks: A lot better than where it was, but I know I have a lot. I can learn and grow and
Brooke Oaks: I guess probably learn from other people and groups and have that support and
Brooke Oaks: I mean just guidance to be better, I guess, I don't know, I mean,
Richelle Direny: That's that that speaks a lot because the reality of it is
Richelle Direny: If your goal is to one day not now and not in the near future. But if it's to one day.
Richelle Direny: Come off of the Suboxone or come off of anything in order to achieve that you have to like you said put in the work to understand what's behind these emotions and why am I getting so anxious and why am I getting so overwhelmed in these diagnosis. And to do that, the thing is,
Richelle Direny: Taking Medications
Richelle Direny: Only help to some degree, you have to do the other part of the work.
Richelle Direny: You get to that place and that level of understanding and that
Richelle Direny: Your ability to
Richelle Direny: Understand
Richelle Direny: What feelings come at you, how to effectively unhealthy and cope with them in a healthy manner until you get to that place, you will be able to get off the medication because the medication is somewhat of a band aid in no matter how whatever it is that you're taking medication for
Richelle Direny: You have to get to that place of, like you said, understanding, a lot of our pass is
Richelle Direny: The driving force to how we are thinking how we act today. You just have to tap into that and you have to be at that place to be open to tapping into that and to understand those emotions and how to deal with them.
Richelle Direny: On because oftentimes we have our past. But you know what today's problem is also adding to my past. And if you only focus on today alone.
Richelle Direny: You will never understanding
Richelle Direny: That what hype heightens today stressors are from those past memories that I have. And those things that has occurred in the past. That's also adding to this.
Richelle Direny: So it's going through that and working through a lot of that and and as you based on what you're saying and just the history that you've shared
Richelle Direny: Your freedom, your pre disposed to a lot of things simply because of just even your family structure and everything that they have gone through and what you were exposed to.
Richelle Direny: The emotions that we
Richelle Direny: Had and suppressed over the years and found different ways to deal with it. When you look at addiction.
Richelle Direny: Nobody is born and be like, well, let me just try, let me drink some alcohol because taste good, or let me do cocaine. Let me do this. And that means that
Richelle Direny: You don't do we don't, we're not born into doing that we're not born with the first thing on my mommy outside of that milk. I want some of this this other stuff. No.
Richelle Direny: Things occurred in life situations and circumstances and those pain and the hurt and everything that we've dealt with, I needed to release this pain I needed to stop. And so we do things to nominate
Richelle Direny: Guess what it's
Richelle Direny: Like when you go to the dentist. If you've ever been to the dentist and the best thing to numb the pain to numb it so you don't feel what happens once that that notification wears off.
Brooke Oaks: Feel at all and
Brooke Oaks: When I might go without taking sub
Brooke Oaks: It's kind of like a lot of things I started to think about and i realized i don't i don't think i process that right because, I mean, I have been using on and off for five years and
Brooke Oaks: I mean, I've been using Suboxone as well and
Brooke Oaks: It kind of all suppresses everything that I've been through for the past five years, and
Brooke Oaks: I think it's going to be a lot to deal with when I decided to come off this box right now it's kind of keeping it at bay.
Richelle Direny: But keeping it at bay. But that's all you're doing is keeping it at bay. But eventually late. So the longer it takes for you to work through them all. If you're just, you're just
Richelle Direny: lengthening the process is kind of like to do this at some point really gonna have to do this at some point it's how long is it going to take you
Richelle Direny: The medication just helps keep a lot of those intensity of the emotions and everything at bay. So you're able to work through it. You're taking antidepressants, you're taking any
Richelle Direny: Medicine for depression, you're taking all of these. It just helps you to be able to cope with it to go through it.
Richelle Direny: As you're working through it, you're going to find that you're less and less dependent upon these things because now you're learning how to work through it.
Richelle Direny: That's literally I'm learning how to work through it. I like to often associate an imagery that I use different imagery to kind of associate with what I'm talking about.
Richelle Direny: Your issues are like giving birth to a baby and I know you've never given birth to a child, but
Richelle Direny: That's how I got to come out one way or the other.
Richelle Direny: Thing and now
Brooke Oaks: You stand a little
Richelle Direny: Bit and the doctor say hey listen. We don't do this willingly or what but but we got to get out.
Richelle Direny: And so that's just kind of how it is. You could take as much pain as you want to, but it's baby guys to get out and that's just kind of, we need to give birth to those things.
Richelle Direny: It's it's happening. We need to give birth. And once we give birth and release it, then we're saying, Okay, I feel
Richelle Direny: Now let's work through this one issue at a time. But you got to give birth kit, you know, because we could keep taking all this medication. Okay, I'll feel the pain anymore. That's fine. But this baby still got to get out.
Richelle Direny: And that's kind of how thorough counseling. It helps you
Richelle Direny: To go through. Hey, I'm, I'm here with you and I know it hurts. And I know I know it hurts like a mother. So the question is it take payments this morning. Yes, I did. All right.
Richelle Direny: Now let's take our time to work through this because you need to make a payment. And now we can work through it because it helps you to follow the processes. Now you're able to cope. Eventually, you'll get to that point where you're no longer going to need it. It ain't today.
Brooke Oaks: But even a
Brooke Oaks: little at a time.
Richelle Direny: And time
And
Brooke Oaks: It all hits me it's not all like crashing down
Richelle Direny: It's not crashing down on. It's kind of like giving birth to a baby that they didn't go yet that baby out, they're gonna say push. Now stop push not stop. You see it's a little bit at a time. Eventually,
Brooke Oaks: It.
Richelle Direny: Mean, and so that's just kind of how and soul together. I will definitely
Richelle Direny: Recommend
Richelle Direny: And this is how we're going to put it for the purposes of definitely recommend bi weekly counseling.
Richelle Direny: And I know for the purposes to for you financially, I would. This is what I would recommend. Now if you actually you're not able to come by weekly. Listen, if it is coming once a month, I would say you do something to do nothing at all is not going to be helpful.
Richelle Direny: To do I know from a program standpoint, they do recommend um twice a month counseling and with group its weekly so I know like some people what they do, especially when they're self pay
Richelle Direny: They will do one week. Group one week counseling one week group when we counseling.
Richelle Direny: If for that financially, then you can I, that I would recommend doing that from a financial standpoint, I mean, because at the end of the day.
Richelle Direny: I want to get. I get want to get through my problems, but the new problem is because I'm trying to get help them going broke while doing it.
Richelle Direny: And that's just now we only going to be working on that we will be working on other things because we worked on. I was stressed, just to get out. So, um, that's what i would i would recommend
Brooke Oaks: You know, from an
Richelle Direny: Agency standpoint, maybe I'll send an email, just to let them know. This is my recommendation in terms of and that's what I'll say, my recommendation is
Richelle Direny: To not do anything at all, or you can speak to them from a financial standpoint if you're able to do until you get your insurance up and running. Maybe through one week counseling. So every week you're with something
Brooke Oaks: And hopefully shouldn't take that long and
Brooke Oaks: I believe there should be a chance that I could be reimbursed.
Brooke Oaks: If I apply and I do pay until I get approved or what I've heard, get my card or anything, but
Brooke Oaks: I need. I'm going to look into that today to see about that. So hopefully that'll happen because luckily I did get unemployment for a little bit.
Brooke Oaks: So it it's helped for me to save up a little bit, to be able to afford these appointments, but
Richelle Direny: So talk to maybe at some point today or tomorrow when you have the chance you could speak with the billing department or just speaks to you know virtual clinic to work out from a financial standpoint.
Richelle Direny: You don't want to go broke trying to get help.
Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Um,
Richelle Direny: So, you know, work it out. I would say I would recommend that again because I've worked. I worked with other people were doing where they'll do the one week of
Richelle Direny: Of group and then the one we will every week. They are engaging in some form of counseling, whether it's from a group or from an individual. And then once your insurance kicks in, then we will, you know, review the plan. Okay.
Richelle Direny: Let's meet again.
Richelle Direny: I can't
Brooke Oaks: My
Brooke Oaks: Goodness.
Richelle Direny: What times are best for you.
Brooke Oaks: disappoint me.
Brooke Oaks: So, what time is best for you.
Brooke Oaks: I'm not working right now. So my schedule is pretty open
Brooke Oaks: 17
Richelle Direny: See you in group tomorrow.
Richelle Direny: And
Richelle Direny: Whether 12 or six o'clock. Okay.
Brooke Oaks: Okay.
Richelle Direny: All right. Remember, thank you so much and see you tomorrow.
Brooke Oaks: Thank you. Bye.